[   0.0] Hello, I am the AI Business 101 professor. I should also say accounting professor as this channel is going to talk about different subjects related to AI basic accounting standards.
[  22.3] some business, some financial planning and analysis, a bunch of different stuff. I have over 25 years of experience in accounting and finance and recently in the AI accounting space. So I hope you choose to join me. That's a little intro of me as we begin our first lesson, which is why debits and
[  46.2] credit suck. First you can see that this is something called a T account. It is literally a T. On the left side are your debits, on the right side are your credits. I remember early on in my career my manager would write this as he we were working through an accounting issue.
[  65.8] And I would say, "What the heck? This is so stupid. Why are we doing this? I learned this in my very first accounting class." But let me tell you, the longer they've been in my career, this can really help you work through your accounting. Think of debits as what you get, and think of credits as what gets taken away. Oh, wait a minute.
[  89.9] It gets a little more complicated than that, depending on what financial statement you're dealing with. When you're on the balance sheet, the left side is good. It increases at your assets. The left side are your liabilities and equity. If you're talking income statement,
[ 110.2] Your debits are your expenses and your credits are your income. So it's a flip side when you're looking at your balance sheet. On your balance sheet, the left side is good, the right side is bad.
[ 129.8] on the income statement, the right side is bad, the left side, the right side is good. So depending on what balance of financial statement that you're talking to will depend on what side of the T account that you're going to be working on. And they relate to each other.
[ 153.1] For example, if we are recording revenue, we sell something. We sell a widget. We sell a bottle of water. The bottle of water costs $1. The person pays us in cash. So on the T account, as the way they record it,
[ 176.6] We are recording revenue. So we are reporting a dollar on the revenue T-account and we are recording a debit to cash on the cash T-account. And that is on the left side. So as you see them side by side together, you will see a dollar being added to the
[ 201.5] Revenue T account on the credit side meaning our revenue has gone up and you are seeing a dollar added to the cash side Meaning our cash has gone up by a dollar This also relates to say we spend a dollar because we have or we spend 50 cents because we have to buy
[ 224.9] the water that we just sold. So 50 cents is going to go on the debit side for inventory expense and the, or for we buy in the water, and then it is going to be
[ 244.1] 50 cents in accounts payable because we bought this and we have to pay the person we bought the water from.
